--- Document Text ---
AY 2021  2022
Saint Louis University
Collaboration to provide access to
food security  SLU collaboration to provide access on
food security
Saint Louis University in collaboration with other institutions and government agencies
aims to provide access on food security and sustainable agriculture knowledge skills or
technology to local farmers and food producers. Published in SLU Website
at URL: https:www.searca.orgnewsfourteamsjoininnovationolympics2grand
finalists
https:car.neda.gov.phrrdiclaunchesrdprogramsforcordilleradevelopment

--- Image Text ---
Beco ci
Be SAGUIO Clits
44
id

ZERO
HUNGER
eesauiochromeur

THEBAGKIOCHRONCLE.COM
ed

Four teams join Innovation Olympics 2.0 grand Lee 
finalists SEARCA Nene

ARCHIE = 



Looking for
agritonovation funds?

Emerging Agricultural
innguatigng tor the
Next Generation 

Low Cost
Chlorophyll Meter
‘On 20 March 2021 six teams from the Luzon and VisayasMindanao legs were given a chance to seal their spot in the 10
2.0 Grand Finale during the Wild Card Pitching Day held via Google Meet

Hailing from Luzon the first winning team developed ARCHIE or The AgriRobot for Crop Health a robot that has the
ability to discover diseases and pests on crops. it was developed by Ms. Carol Domalsin of Saint Louis University Ms.
Judy May Mariano from University of Baguio and Mr. John Ericson Duley from University of the Cordilleras.

Ms. Domalsin said that “crop pests and diseases are among the top pain poinis of vegetable farmers. That is why we
develop a curious rover that can detect pests and dispenses pest control in vegetable greenhouses:

‘An exemplary model of SEARCAS AIG interconnectivity model Ms. Domalsin highlighted that Project ARCHIE is made
Up of 24 participants from various sectors in the academe industry and government of Benguet province.
Baguio Chronicle a
July 11

DOSTCAR works with SLU Bauko for agri ziplines

‘THE Department of Science and TechnotogyCordillera Administrative Region
DOSTCAR Saint Louis University {SLU} Local Government Unit LGUBauko
and TowadanBito Farmers’ Association TFA signed a Memorandum of
Agreement MOA for the establishment of Cableways for Agricultural Resource
‘Transport System CARTS in Monamon Sur Bauko Mountain Province on June
23 2022

Funded by the DOST through its Niche Centers for the Region NICER Program
with a counterpart funding of 7.1M from LGUBauko this project is seen to
address the lack of adequate infrastructure to transport agricultural produce
through cablesupported infrastructure that is locally adapted to the terrain of
CAR.

Farmers need to hire local porters to carry agricultural produce to the nearest
farmtomarket road. The cablesupported infrastructure will provide an
alternative system for transporting goods that will consequently improve
agricultural activities and outputs in the province.

QOSTCAR Regional Director Dr. Nancy A. Bantog in her message delivered by
Engr. Angel L. Maguen conveyed that this partnership is designed to help.
hhightand farmers to have safe and costefficient means of transporting their
agricultural produce and increase farm yield through improved and innovative
technologies. She also highlighted that DOSTCAR in its advocacy of effecting
change and development through Science Technology and innovation will
Sustain its support to invaluable partners and stakeholders in the region.

Meanwhile Mayor Abraham B. Akilit said that this project is the first of its kind in
their municipality and commended the DOSTCAR for having been their reliable
partner in delivering technotogydriven development in the municipality. He
further mentioned that as he steps down as mayor he appeals for theDOST to
continually bring relevant STI programs in the municipality.
9 ao
HUNGER.

AAS
wy
